Juspay’s Express Checkout Product and Payment Orchestration
Purpose and Core Proposition of Express Checkout
Payment Method Orchestration for Merchants
Integration with Payment Aggregators (PAs)
Configuration Options for Routing and Success Rates
Value-Added Services (Offer Engine, Analytics, Fraud Management)

[00:00:00] Quite a different setup. First time here in Jasper. This is happening, right? We'll have to get used to it as in when we grow and expand beyond to other geographies as well. Fine. We'll try to keep it short. I think in order to make it more fruitful, you'll have to probe me wherever you feel that they, you have questions.
[00:00:17] I think that's when I think we, the entire discussion is gonna be more fruitful and helpful for you as well, right? I might, because. Because of some background information, I might skip a few topics, but if you feel that there's a gap there, you can probe me fine. So what are we gonna do today is just briefly touch upon the express checkout product as such as to why this even exists in the market.
[00:00:40] I. Some of my observations would be from the Indian market PO point of view. You can, again, as I said, probe me for other geographies as well. Okay. And maybe if I can answer in case where I want Azer to take it up, or maybe Raul to pitch in. He can also pitch in and these guys can help you clarify on the questions.
[00:00:58] Fine. Express checkout as a general, the core proposition why this product was built. Was to orchestrate. Now the idea of orchestration is this simple, right? The just the, there is an orchestrator, right? A musical band that you want somebody to guide the entire set of musicians where there are somebody holding trumpet, somebody with different violins and all of that, right?
[00:01:20] You want an orchestrator to tell what to do, right? In order to get a music and not a noise, right? Similar is what Express Checkout also does. What we do is. For all the complexities that are there for the merchants in terms of payment methods. Orchestrator as a product helps to streamline as to what payment method or what gateway you should go for in order to get a better success rate.
[00:01:44] I will now touch upon each of these piece and jargons that I've used. So we'll start with a merchant. So let's imagine a scenario where a merchant who. Currently operates only in India. I'll go to other geographies also who currently operates only in India and has a limited offerings in terms of payment methods, let's say cards and net banking.
[00:02:04] Net banking is a bank transfers. Okay. So this, and I've just I'm the merchant. I've just started business here in this country. So I have only two payment methods to press get started with, but I know in my, in back of my mind that I want to make a bigger business. Now, if I want to make a bigger business, I'll have to expand to other geographies.
[00:02:24] All also cater to other modes of payments, which are most prevalent and used by people here in India. Limiting ourselves to the Indian geography. So let's say there is extension to cards and u net banking. There is another payment method, UPI, right? Which is again, over net banking only, but it's another payment method which is generally used.
[00:02:44] So how do we extend all of these for the merchants? And how will the merchant get to know, okay, from which payment aggregator can I get this feature? So that's why what we do is we have merchant on one side, we have all of these payment methods. I will try and abstract this out later. So we have payment methods here.
[00:03:03] I will use payment methods like cards. Then we'll have another payment method, let's say could be net banking. You can treat this as bank transfers. I hope bank transfers the terminology that you guys use, right? Then we might have some other payment methods. I'll use UPI, but you could use wallet.
[00:03:23] Any wallet you could use, right? A wallet could be Alipay or PayPal in case if you want to use, right? So these are the modes that this merchant would want to adopt if the merchant is trying to expand to either geographies or to a different customer base, right? So what we do is. If Juspay would not be existing in the picture, what would the merchant have to do is merchant will have to understand how cards work and what is the details that I need to capture for card, let's say in this case, card number, CVV expiry, the name on card, right?
[00:03:58] These are the details that I'll have to accept. Similarly for net banking, I might need a redirection to What are the banks that would support? We'll take few banks for examples, maybe like HDFC or maybe HSBC, you would want to take. Or some other banks also, we could take as an example where if I need to connect to all of these banks, so what exists in the market is there is a payment aggregator who will provide all of these features.
[00:04:22] A payment aggregator for an Indian market perspective would be a raise pay in case of Singapore or maybe out of outside of India. You can think of Stripe, you can think of Ady, and all of these would be payment aggregators who would be supporting all multiple payment methods across geographies as well.
[00:04:39] And they would also have a documentation which will say that, okay, this particular payment method is only available in this region. Let's say for example, if it is pay via Alipay, right? It's not available in India. Maybe it's available in China market and Singapore, maybe. Et cetera, et cetera, right? So they, there is a PA who exists here.
[00:04:55] Now what happens is this merchant has to talk to this PA in order to. Get some credentials and use, because merchant I think there is regulation across, in all geographies where an online merchant cannot directly accept payment, right? It has to be via some bank, right? And that bank will eventually transfer the money to the merchant later the next day.
[00:05:16] So that that's where the merchant will have to go to pa, let's say this is PA one. And with this, and this merchant will take some business. This is, let's say food delivery is the business. Whatever I'm doing right now, I'm just setting up the context of why just exist and then we'll get into a, the express checkout product.
[00:05:33] Okay, so this merchant will have to get in touch with the first pa. Let's say this PA one is add in and this guy is gonna provide some API products as to if you want Ian to collect payment. Ian says that, Hey dude, if you want me to collect payment, you send me a request in this certain format and all of that for which these guys will expose some APIs.
[00:05:54] So there is an API. So this guy will give the API. The merchant is supposed to use this. API pass a call. To this guy saying that, Hey, dude, collect one $20 for me for this food delivery that I want to do. And the customer is intending to pay using card. So I'll give you the card details. You move ahead with the transaction.
[00:06:16] Now, in the back there would be the network calls, bank calls, all of that. I'm just ignoring it for the sake of simplicity. Okay? Now this is the first pa now. I'm operating here in let's say India Market. Now I want to go and expand to us as well. Now in us there are other modes of payment also available, right?
[00:06:36] And maybe a DN is not giving better rates, maybe because a n will in the backend will have some acquiring banks also, right? And those acquiring banks are not giving good rates to me in this merchant, in the US market. So what I'll have to do is, I'll have to think of an alternative. So this guy will have to again, talk.
[00:06:53] Consult some other PA two. I'll take Stripe as an example here. And this guy, again, will have all of these payment methods as two cards some local payment methods and maybe wallets or whatever, write some other payment methods. Again, when I'm talking to this guy, he will say that, Hey dude, if you want me to collect payment, send me the message in this format.
[00:07:14] This guy is again gonna give some set of APIs. So this guy will have to construct the message in a different way in order to talk to this guy. The same message will have to be constructed in a different way to talk to this guy because this set of APIs are different. What we do as a company here is Juspay, we say merchant need, not getting the complexity of integrating every different API.
[00:07:36] So we come here in this layer saying that we are here. The merchant needs to only talk, to Juspay, and we don't want this pipeline to exist. So there is no need to for this pipeline. Juspay will integrate with this. Juspay will integrate here. So merchant only needs to talk to Juspay. Merchant doesn't need to have a direct integration with pa.
[00:08:00] Got it. Does that help so far? Now when this layer exists, right? What is the value prop that we are giving? So if the customer is still, if the merchant wants to still collect payment from the customer in car using a card payment method option, right? What we give as an option here is we'll figure out which of these two gateways is giving you better success rate.
[00:08:24] So higher convergence, right? And the merchant also has some configurations available, which we'll talk about after some time. These are all on the acquiring rates and all of that rates and all. But which of these to choose from and on what criteria? These all configurable criteria is what Juspay as a platform gives.
[00:08:42] And this is what is the core proposition that we help you choose? What is the right gateway to route this transaction to in order to ensure that you eventually receive the payment and the customer eventually receive the service or the product? So highest convergence is what is the core proposition? Now, we'll I've already briefly mentioned, but we'll go deeper into each of these.
[00:09:07] So the first area is that you would want to use an orchestrator for better success rate. Of course, second. In case you want to go to other geographies, you may not, again, physically go there and then figure out everything, right? So we have PA payment aggregators from different geographies also, which you, which the merchant could integrate in order to get the ball ruling in terms of payments and providing services for other geographies, right?
[00:09:34] So this is other geographies
[00:09:39] then. There are instances where a certain payment aggregators would not have all the payment methods available. When I say payment methods, I'm saying payment options, right? So these are payment methods for me. Cards and ed banking and all. Other terminology you could think of payment options also.
[00:09:55] I'm not sure what is the right terminology that you use there in Singapore, but yeah, these are the payment methods that we have. Now, this A DN is not giving U wallets used in us. Let's say, for example, this guy doesn't give PayPal as an option, but there would be customers, if I want to operate in the US region, there will be customers wanting to pay via PayPal.
[00:10:14] So what do the merchant do, right? Because there is no PayPal here. So then the merchant will have to opt for this. So then again, orchestrator helps direct not just the orchestrator, but the actual express checkout as a product helps to expand to other payment methods. So extend payment method options.
[00:10:32] Okay. Back, give more options to the merchant as to what all different payment methods in which you can collect the money for, right? And you could also think of better commercials. Now there, there are instances where because you are anyway acquiring via a bank, right? So there are of course some rates that these guys are gonna charge, but the merchant would negotiate with different PAs in order to get the right amount because eventually these guys will have to give a cut to this, right?
[00:11:04] Because they're facilitating the entire payment, maintaining infra and all of that, right? But the merchant also wants to make sure that there is a backup. So I want better rate, but I also want to have reliability. So what do I do is I'll give my first preference to, let's say if I say there are two PAs, PAA and PAB, and I want to do a card transaction, and this guy has given me better commercials.
[00:11:26] So what I will do is I'll say that, okay, if this guy is available give 90% of traffic to this guy. Okay? 90% of cards traffic to this a. A is. Pa, one of the pa, PAA and 10% here. Now all of these configurations is available at this layer, so we give all of these configurations to the merchant where the merchant can define for themselves as to what payment method, and there is a lot of granularity available.
[00:11:54] I'm not going deeper into all of those. Granularities for the sake of the entire discussion. Maybe what We can go deeper if you have questions. So better rates that they have negotiated with the PAs or the entire MDR things and all right, that's where configurations always possible at this layer, just based layer.
[00:12:12] So what do Japa do is we give a set of APIs, of course. Raul, have you already briefed them? All the products. A-P-I-S-D-K, headless First session. First session itself. So this layer Juspay, right? We have, so the core proposition is this, but what we do is we have extended this core proposition into different forms based on what kind of merchants would want to opt for it.
[00:12:32] There are some really good tech merchants who would want to build payment page on their own for them. We expose this API product, which is an express checkout core express checkout, API product. There will be merchants who would say that, okay, I don't want to integrate a lot of APIs. I want to have just a direct payment page.
[00:12:49] You give me all the options available. So for them, we have a payment page option also available, which kind of absorbs a lot of complexity and makes it easier for merchant to initiate the payment page and just take the final response from the payment page. It's less complex and slightly more configurable in terms of layout design, what kind of text you want to display and all that.
[00:13:09] And we also give dashboard to the merchant for monitoring, monitoring everything. Starting from what is the total volume, how much am I converging to, what are the error rates? What are the different kind of errors I'm getting across? Different payment methods, all different geographies, what intervals, et cetera, et cetera, right?
[00:13:28] So this is just the simple version of it. I will take your questions and then we'll go deeper into whatever questions you have. Za, if you want to add here, anything.
[00:13:40] Azar, are you still there?
[00:13:45] Sure. Okay, nevermind. You guys can switch on. Okay. Am I audible? Yes. To me you are. Yes. Yes. Yeah. Yes. Azar, was just trying to show buying. And she sponsored get more than what PG or even provider then that comes with the added complexity. And because now s are being sector let's say cart, they're using cart and all providers are also and white people now, right?
[00:14:17] There are multiple complexities whenever there are more than one provider. So why more than one provider? And when one quarter, one providers are there for a merger. To support a payment payment for their business. Then that goes in there a lot of complexity, and that's when just bank state with a pink.
[00:14:35] So we give express account as a patent, which generally when we say payment operating system and right. Abstract all in the, and provide a black, when they can do one aspirations by using the configurations one. So that's a team with which we have started this merchant can just two point time integration with our product.
[00:15:00] And then for the new region or payment method, call payment, or let's say we changes to clients or anything, right? Mean our approach is full noise. Do all the changes without watch and changing everything in that degrees. So anything can emphasize the re outing. Whatever they wants, and we give it as a part of our attached forward to pick it any time up to our dashboard, watch bigger new payment.
[00:15:28] The third, whenever decision, whatever they want, or add more payment, take away, or make some changes al whatever we first up claims this thing. Ensure that watch can get this picture by just just bring the configuration change without touching that integration. So that's our key, which we have started this.
[00:15:49] And then now for every new feature we churn, we follow this strategy. So for example, in India there was a, to move to tokenization. So today we have implemented, this is without so we had some to 1000 fortune with choosing our product that we never, the. It enable all merchant, we make all our merchant pipeline to that by RBIB without them making any change.
[00:16:19] At, on the go, we probably paying all the merchants of command. Similarly, there was a shift from previous one, previous two, right? We say keep, so that change also, we did it without merchant, our merchant that change anything. So our first goal is to. Once Merchant integrates with us, payment, compliance, any migration, whatever we do it seamlessly without them checking everything similar we said you payment gateway or if they have any rule, like for example, credit card two one gateway or the gateway visa, master visa two one gateway, or maybe let's say route the traffic based on issuer all ski all three.
[00:17:02] Or or any other parametal like kind. There are some point environmentals. We are supporting mid, which merchant and the rules are. So basically overall point is when there are more than one provider for a merchant. There is a complex Yeah, that's complexity. So that we are trying to absorb as much as possible so that can enjoy iteration.
[00:17:24] And you on the tip on the mouse. They can do whatever they want to do. And they can scale, they can do whatever without them attaching their payment if best. So the bank, we started with we said that we are payment operating system, which means, we are trying to, she plays team with our program.
[00:17:43] So right now, maybe all the merchants might be having separate team managing all their payments far right. So we are saying we can have a short on team and just use this product bank and that all for you. That's the way we are looking at hand,
[00:18:03] Chuck. So there, there are other points also that I can add to this list, which is features and all of that. But I think those are all value added stuffs, right? So the core reason would be one of these reasons, right? Why a merchant would want to opt for Juspay now. Let's, I mean you guys can ask questions and then probably we will take those specific areas.
[00:18:24] If you have any questions or I can also just zoom into Juspay in terms of the product, if that be case.
[00:18:34] Yeah. Yeah. So for Indonesia is, so they know about the VG gateway. From the merchant perspective, sure. For the over sales skills. Sometime beside the call c fee for transaction. So I saying banks give the purchase some cash back or money for supporting the ship. Okay. It's limited for the amount cash back.
[00:19:05] Okay. In terms of the go to transac for the percentage, but just we can have a transaction. By calling from number of students that choose. Okay, so if I'm getting your question right, what you're saying is there are certain banks in Indonesia who would give some. Some budget or maybe they would get into some partnership with the merchants saying that, okay, any customer, first hundred customers of yours, if they're transacting into let's say 1000 Indonesian repair I would give them a cash back off 50 repair, let's say for example.
[00:19:39] So the merchants and the banks then get into an agreement, right? So in, in such a, such cases, we have products called As EMI, which is. Installments and also offers which the merchants can offer. So what do we need to know is we need to first understand from the banks or maybe from the banks overlapping with the payment pg payment gateways as to what kind of construct they give.
[00:20:01] We have something called as an offer engine. Similar concept exists here in India as well. So it is bank partnered marketing and offers, right bank offers. So a merchant can run bank offers via the offer model that we give, where the merchant can go and set up a configuration saying that for this offer, our customer is eligible only once.
[00:20:21] If it's a new customer, a customer is eligible only once a month. If the customer is transacting for maybe 10,000 repair, then he's, the customer is eligible for twice a month, et cetera. All of these configurations, this I can give, but at this layer I'll have to understand from the pg what are the bank offers possible.
[00:20:38] So that construct we have, we might have to slightly tweak a bit with respect to the exact geography, and maybe Indonesia, maybe with Singapore. But offer engine as such is one of the suit. So if you look here so this part. So this is the express checkout. So this entire middle layer, right?
[00:20:54] This what I'm talking about is this layer and what we have spoken about is just this orchestration piece, but it has a lot of additional value added services like Offer Engine, which is where you will manage all of these cash bags that offers like 10% off, 20% off, and a minimum card value, maximum card value, all of that, right?
[00:21:17] Then you give, analytics on top of it. So there are a lot of pieces. We can go and cover each of these pieces. It'll also tell you that okay, a certain payment method may be cards for some time is not working, or Visa card is not working. You could opt for a MasterCard or a Diners card if you have any.
[00:21:32] So that is the outage piece. So it provides a lot of other information also. But yeah, specific to your question, we have that support of providing offers for merchants, partnered with banks, bank offers. You can run. Raul, if need be, we can also schedule one session zooming into the offers capability.
[00:21:53] Yeah. Yeah. We, and how are we doing that for airlines? I think airlines will be most relatable. Yeah. Yeah, sure. Yeah. You had a follow up question? Yeah. This is the case. One of, I have the case. So the, it's on more for the give to merchants, not really for usual. So actually when sometime, in the end of the year related to their target.
[00:22:17] They probably lowering the percentage of mdr r for merchant. Start if, and the merchant can achieve the target 1 million. And they can give a cash back like 20% from that one. That, and configuration it will be best on, on. Can you for for doing that, right?
[00:22:37] Okay. So like the card payment A at all for according T according B, like the B, it's on maximum amount for only. What is B configurate? Best card sales for you. So we can con set up the volume, but if there is a threshold on volume, other, do we have, configuration, which says that, okay, on payment aggregator BI will set, I will transfer traffic only worth up to $1 million, let's say.
[00:23:07] No, that, that is likely not a variable, but it, the on all the pay, the home cap pays is not available for you can say, Hey, both my 20% on 30% or 60% off traffic. To one acquirers and the rest of the 50% can be splitted into two different acquirer. That flexibility is there, but aggregated amount based routing is currently not available.
[00:23:37] But we'll take this as an input. We will we will check the feasibility of adding this. So we basically, I'm just trying to understand the, what you're saying is, let's say acquirer, one is saying if you give me one like. Worth of traffic. Then I will give you so and so MDR rates per day. So we have to ensure that in our configuration, saying aggregated one lack of traffic should go to X gateway.
[00:24:03] If success rate of that gateway permits, that's a requirement, right? Yeah. Yeah. So we'll take this as an input, but there is an alternative, as we said. You can split the traffic based on the percentage say car traffic based on percentage. But aggregated volume is something we are not taking as an input as of now.
[00:24:25] But we'll take this as an, so what we say as a volume is the number of transactions and not the value of transactions. So that value construct today doesn't exist. But if that is a requirement, we can take it as an input and then try to understand more as to how does it work. And then probably also build it if need be.
[00:24:41] Because even in our conversation with the lease claim Property, yeah. They also mentioned the same thing, right? We can strike between two processes based on body. Okay. I said we don't have that amount as a volume as a word. So I wrote, I told them that we don't have that as an input.
[00:24:57] Sure. But having to come across that use case otherwise. Sure. So banks give a different md, ah, so they'll have this much of based on float. Okay. That they want to part only this. Okay. This amount. Okay. Then they want the volume because I think in everyone tries to keep every other party happy.
[00:25:15] Okay. Okay. Maybe we can connect with them to understand slightly more details and then see how do we do it? I think so. It should be possible, but he should know as to what is split, how and what are the criteria mostly. So we should be closing POC by. December 10. After that, I think we can take this as a phase two discussion and see how we can Sure.
[00:25:36] Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So this workaround, maybe based on that ticket size, they can play with the percent percentage of traffic and maybe buy that also up to some extend this can be achieved say whatever the ticket size they have, and based on that, they can say this many this much percentage of traffic.
[00:25:55] If we give to XPG on this ex, this instrument, then probably that amount can be reached. Correct. Okay. The average ticket size. Yeah. Yeah, sure. Nice input. Yeah. As a strong construct, if we really have to build, we can have a call and understand the exact requirement and see how can we cheapest, should, this is as from, various merchants and definitely it'll be a value prop for us. Sure, yeah. Cool. Yeah. Cool aspect. How does the platform can do downtime? Sure. Okay. What we do, so there, there are two ways in which we do this. So there is a schedule downtime. So schedule downtime is where the PGS will let us know that okay, they're gonna go for maintenance.
[00:26:41] Once we receive that information, we have that as an input configured. So we have an outage system where we could say that, okay, this, if the PG goes for downtime, what are the payment methods that are gonna get impacted? And we do not route traffic there. We have some configurations available at this just space dashboard layer.
[00:26:58] And there are times when there is no schedule outage as such. But unforeseen situ situations where maybe a certain PG is not behaving or maybe giving us good, better success rate. So we have an engine which looks at what is the su so we have a score associated with each gateway. We can go deeper into the scoring also.
[00:27:16] So whenever a transactions gets initiated with a gateway, we maintain our score. Once the transaction is successful, we reward the pg. So that's how we maintain some scoring. And if the scoring falls below certain thresholds, we start showing up an outage message, which along with the payment method, saying that, okay, experiencing low success rate for this payment instrument, so then the customer could choose for it.
[00:27:39] Choose for an alternative option. Now this is possible if the merchant has U used our outage, API. If the merchant is an API merchant, if the merchant has opted for our payment page product, then this is out of the box. We directly show them on the, because payment page is controlled by Juspay. So Juspay will show all of the relevant messages that, okay, this particular payment method is experiencing low success rate enough.
[00:28:01] All of this sold separate thing with the not all of these is sold separately selling Raul, you'll have to take it up on the, how are they sold, how do you package and sell this? Okay. How that we take in the and sure. I think that the so pieces like offer engine, so there's certain out of the box stuff that we process, so pg orchestration, analytics or orders.
[00:28:22] Intelligent routing. Intelligent routing has some two parts of it. So some things are directly bundled together and sold whenever the merchant gets on board. But if a merchant has a specific use case of running offers, then we sell them separate offer engine, which is an add-on service, right? Similarly, the merchant has, subscriptions, then we sell them subscriptions as a separate piece. There's reconciliation is a separate piece. I'm sure Raul will take it up when there is a discussion in video. Raul, please invite me, because I also want to know how do you bundle this? The sales side. I wanna understand. Yeah. Chat. Yeah.
[00:28:56] Okay. Question. From a PG perspective, when we are looking at subscriptions. The PG tokenizes, the subscription, or subsequently they take on the tokenization for sub subsequent payments, or even we try this, right? When the orchestrator comes to the plate, how does the logic works? Is it a regular payment sent to the PGS called edit?
[00:29:20] Are, be aware that it is a subscription. So the merchants are generally aware so merchants will trigger the subscriptions recurring payments, right? So there's a first time registration, and then there is monthly, let's say if it is Netflix, monthly, you would want to again charge the card. Now, the first time mandate would have been registered with a certain pg.
[00:29:39] Now the recurring payment happens, you have to give a reference to the actual first time mandate that was set up, which is the first time subscription setup, right? So that's what we do here in India. I don't know how do it, does it operate for the international market, but I'm sure it would be slightly similar only where you would have to give a reference to the actual subscription id.
[00:29:56] And then against that, only you could charge a payment. As you wanna go deeper into this, what are the ways in which you handle subscriptions recurring of the subscription? Yeah, so currently, whatever Bhan said is something we are following in India where you register your subscription with say payment provider pay you or raise pay or let's just try then your, all your recurring also goes via same provider only that is in India.
[00:30:24] But as we said in a, in one of our call we are revamping our all our modules to take input from the global point of view. And few of the features, like I think your, if your queries around gateway agnostic. Subscription transaction. That is something that we are exploring where you do your first transaction via say aan.
[00:30:47] But when you come for recurring, if AAN is down or not performing well or if merchant wants for route via any other provider, that option will be provided. So that is something we are exploring right now. And phone. That feature will also be available. But yeah, currently it's all tied to wherever you are doing your first transaction.
[00:31:07] Basically, we call it as register mandate. All your recurring call goes to the same provider only. That is something we call out in India. Yeah, so not too much of orchestration happening here for subscription in general as such. And and then when we started building subscription, I think it was very centric to the Indian market.
[00:31:25] Now, as in when we are exploring going to other geographies, we are realizing that, okay, there are different ways in which things function. We are also trying to collate now all of these information and then try to revamp the entire way, the entire, so we call this as mandate here. So how do we, how do the entire mandate and subscription thing works?
[00:31:40] So that's maybe you, if you guys have some inputs, you guys can also pitch in and talk about the specifics in your region, right? So that we can incorporate all of this. Just one more input here. When we say subscription, right now we do not have a doula. In our case right now, merchant maintains the scheduler and all the recurring calls, subsequent calls are coming from merchant.
[00:32:03] So merchants are triggering all the calls. There is no scheduler maintained at the Just Pan, which does the recurring call as per the frequency set by the merchant. So that is also currently not available. Got that right. So by scheduler, what he means is that the. So I Juspay as an orchestrator here, doesn't do or maintain the list of, okay this customer's renewal date is this.
[00:32:25] So I'm gonna go and go to the PG directly. No, I wait for the merchant to tell Jasper that. Hey, dude at, on my platform, I'm seeing that this customer is supposed to renew this subscription on 22nd of January. So take this is the card, Nu details. Go and charge this card. So I go to the pg, so I as in Jasper, doesn't maintain all of this.
[00:32:43] Okay. When is this due? So all of that option is not available at us. It is merchant who's maintaining all of the scheduling options, right?
[00:32:54] All right. Yeah. In terms of smart railing, right? It's usually how many times we tried, before they speak to. And so that takes a bit. Okay. So as this is specific to scoring, so how many times do you retry on a specific payment method before you actually decide to switch to another payment method or another?
[00:33:13] Pg to be specific, okay. So that is something which is configurable at the payment method layer, let's say it's by default we say 20 transaction. On a gateway, it fails. We switch off. We lower the score of that gateway and whatever alternate gateway, whichever is available, that takes a preference.
[00:33:33] But that configuration is also given to the merchant where merchant can say they want to switch off a gateway after five transaction, or let's say they want to switch up a gateway after 10 transaction. There are options available. It's a configuration. There is a default we follow, but this configuration is also available to the merchant if some merchant.
[00:33:52] Wants to go aggressive. Let's say sometimes there is a delay in payment, little delay. So by transaction always switch off that. So that's the reason we have seen that. If merchant is having high volume, let's say they're doing some 10 20 TPS, then in that case maybe 20 transaction is something we have taken as a base.
[00:34:12] And if that happens, then we lower the score of that dimension for a gateway. So for the same dimension, when I say dimension. For the dimension is a combination of which gateway, which payment method. When we say payment method, it is wallet under wallet. Which wallet? Maybe Raul can give you a relevant example based on your market, but in India when we say card on card on visa via stripe is one, one dimension in this combination, if we see payments are failing.
[00:34:42] Consecutively for say, by de transaction as default. Then we switch up that gateway, but it is con configurable, right? And we have also introduced two ways in which we take this decision. So there is an elimination where we say that, okay, when the transaction gets initiated. We will first penalize a transaction by default with a small value, which there's a factional value, one by something.
[00:35:06] And then what we do is eventually, if the transaction is successful, we reward that payment combination the entire dimension. Payment method type, merchant, and all. And if. And there, there's a certain threshold which the merchant can set up. There is a default threshold, which generally the Juspay platform operates at.
[00:35:22] But merchant can slightly go more aggressive, as I said, right? So they have an option to say that, okay, the scoring, if the scoring falls below this for maybe not 20 transactions, but for five transactions, don't wait. Just switch to another gateway. So the next transaction which gets initiated which will go to the newer PG and not the older pg and there's something also called a success based routing where we maintain bucketing wise, what is the success rate for the first five minutes or every five minutes?
[00:35:47] What are the success rates available for a particular pg? And that's how we also choose. What, which, PG to route these transactions to. But that is slightly getting more deeper as to how the success based routing and the elimination routing works. I'm sure BD would have a deck for this Raul, the success based routing and elimination routing, I think.
[00:36:05] Yeah. Yeah. Maybe you guys can refer to that. Yeah. So how about, you guys are here for some time, right? Yeah. Yeah. So you can refer to this deck and then if you have any further questions, understanding the elimination and success based routing, you guys can reach out to us. Slack also, and we are seated on third floor.
[00:36:25] Sure. Yeah. So anything in specific, in terms, I think was also suggesting that we could also cover how does it, what does it take for the merchant to get started with the entire integration process? So I think the first half of the entire discussion where there is. No concrete solution that we have yet proposed, right?
[00:36:48] So that's when they get in touch with the BD folks. The BD folks will try to understand the requirement from the merchant and try to fit in as to what kind of products would work, maybe an API product or the payment page as a product, and what all additional value added services will have to give as a requirement to the problem informed by the merchant.
[00:37:07] Once that closure is done, I think that gets passed onto the program team, which kind of takes over and helps merchant get onboarded. So they will issue the credentials, give access to this dashboard, and then get in touch with the merchant in order to help them start with the integration process. And in the meantime they might also come up with some other newer use case or maybe some use cases, which we don't have out of the box available.
[00:37:29] They might be slightly tweaking required. So that's when it gets parked passed on to the product team. So we'll do certain developments if need be, and then make sure that the merchant goes so it's via the program team? Yeah. How does Jasper presents ation multiple. Okay so right now a lot of reconciliation happens directly between PAs and the merchants.
[00:37:50] And what we facilitated is the reporting of the, all the orders that came through, all the success orders that went by via particular pg. So we, because we as a layer. Don't touch money as such, right? So the money gets collected by the P pgs and these guys are supposed to generate the settlement reports.
[00:38:08] This settlement report goes to the merchant. Merchant also fetches one report from Juspay and then tries to reconcile. So of course, for certain pgs there is a specific identifier which the merchant has to use while reconciling between the transactions that were routed and the payment that was collected.
[00:38:24] But in a certain there, there are certain pgs who also expose their settlement APIs. So maybe Japa could integrate those settlement APIs and then pass directly the settlement report to the merchants. So I'll fetch the settlement information from this pa. I already have the merchant transactions information here.
[00:38:41] I could pass the settlement information to the merchants. But this is, again, a view, it is not actually doing settlement, it is just giving a view of what are the transactions against which the entire money was settled. But I think other, we don't have, do we have a lot of settlement APIs integrated for any pgs?
[00:38:58] Yeah, I think so. We have a re plan as a separate product. Which we are it's a very new product. We are extending based on the requirement from the merchant from global point of view. Also, you can set the expectations. We can get it built, but the current way, what we are doing is we have few aggregators, our payment provider who are exposing their API to patch the reconsideration related information so that.
[00:39:26] System fetes the data. Few of the gateways are sharing files with us. So we face the data in that separate system with that, and that same system connects to our main express account system. It collects the data from this source. I mean our express account as a source payment gateway as a source.
[00:39:45] And it do, it does the internally and gives a unified view to our merchant. It shows the anomalies. Whatever it has among discrepancies or pending settlement. Few of the views have we already built, but to say that it's a complete product for a merchant solving all their use case, we are we are not completely there yet, but it's an evolving phase.
[00:40:08] Maybe if you have any such requirement, we can get it connected with the recon team. We can discuss, maybe you can also see the current product, whatever we have, and how can we extend that for our global use case.
[00:40:24] Sure. Rahul any merchants who have opted for Hola recon product as such in general? So recon, I think there are a couple of conversations, but Okay. Sure. Because it's directly between the PAs only, right? PAs and the merchants doing it. We only so recon has a product for our PA that we have, we'll, just space PA right there.
[00:40:43] We are having a full, proper recon because we receive the files from the banks as to whatever was settled and we just calling Anoma. Correct? Yeah. Yeah. It's anomaly detector Only we can say I.
[00:41:01] Maybe you guys can get access to the just space dashboard sandbox. Maybe you can explore that dashboard if you want. I can also take you to a tour of the entire dashboard piece if need be. Don't have access. Not to the dashboard would. Okay. Okay. You guys can take it. I think that is easily accessible. You can ping Kara.
[00:41:22] Hi.
[00:41:31] Goodbye. Hello? What else do we want to cover here? We have touched upon the forward leg, so refunds and all that are quite a few things that we provide merchants the option to get money on the refunded. So those are all extended features. So as I said the core propositions are what mentioned here, but then there are a lot of other features.
[00:41:51] That we provide to the merchants, which eventually, if they don't use our APIs or the product, they will have to build it on their own. So let's say for example, if a customer is making an attempt to do a transaction via card payment but it did not go through in let's say some 15, 20 seconds or such, right?
[00:42:07] Or did not receive a confirmation customer makes another attempt of another payment method. Let's say it's a bank transfer and that payment goes through, and in the meantime, even the card also goes through. So then there are two successful payment against one order. So what we do is we have a fulfillment window, a setup where one of the transaction will be auto refunded to the me customer.
[00:42:27] So the merchant does not need to intervene. The merchant only needs to say that, okay, anything which is getting fulfilled outside of this time auto refund, which is the fulfillment window. Or if there are multiple payments within this fulfillment and window, then still refund one. So all of these configurations, such features, these are all extended features, value add stuffs that we provide to merchants.
[00:42:47] They're instant refunds possible. That customer has paid via some x payment method they want to refund in the y payment method and that to instantly. So we facilitate that as well. So those are instant refund via our separate product called as Morpheus. Okay? So we have options where a customer has paid via x payment method.
[00:43:06] And when they want a refund, they want the refund in y payment method. So how do we do that? So those are certain configurations available. There's a separate product for it, Morpheus, which is a payout product, which does instant refund if the requirement is Morpheus. Morpheus, yes. We have some fancy games.
[00:43:25] So
[00:43:29] yeah, internal. Yeah. This Express checkout also is an internal name is Euler. Yes. We love giving scientists name. Sure. Yeah.
[00:43:49] Find part if the required to successful for a refund to the customer. What does Mike has? Or get a notification Pro card, it's a reminder to their latest code. Okay. So how does it work? Is so when we initiate a refund message to the payment gateways we get a confirmation that they will again, have to go to the underlying banks and all in order to get that refund processed.
[00:44:19] That there is, there's a specific information, there is an ID and number that we receive from the PAs once. The money is credited to the customer's bank account, right? When we receive that information, we also pass that information to the merchant. That is an indicator that the customer would've received the money, or at least it is processed by the bank.
[00:44:35] And we have something called as an audit trail, which is a refund audit trail on the dashboard. So merchant can actually look for an order which is X, y, z, order against that XY order. Let's say this order is a hundred dollars. The customer would be, the merchant would be able to see, okay, this was paid on, let's say, 12th of December is the order date, and the refund was initiated on 18th of December, and the refund was credited to the customer's account, let's say on 22nd of December. So this piece is available as an audit trail. So the must merchant can actually go and check, okay, when was the refund initiated?
[00:45:09] When did we pass it to the bank? When did we receive this id and when was it actually settled to the customer? The actual customer settling is a tricky part there because some merchants would give us, some pgs would give us the IDs, which is actually the settlement id, but in some case they would see that, okay, the bank has processed.
[00:45:26] Now we really don't know if the customer has received or not. So that confirmation, the merchant themselves will have to take it with the customer.
[00:45:34] So some audit trails are possible, even the entire transaction also, right in the transaction, okay, what were the gateways available? How, why did we choose a particular gateway for routing? Did we make the first attempt? First attempt failed? What was the second attempt? All of that information is also available on the auditory, so there is an audit trail for transaction.
[00:45:52] Also, what, when I say transaction, what I mean is the payment. The payment attempt is a transaction for me refund anywhere you guys know, right? Sure. I just wanna ask one question in terms of transaction monitor. Yeah, there's any fraudulent or risk transactions, and you get blocked from that moment onwards. It means it blocks from all Fiji. So either still trying are because is now. Based on transaction monitoring. So now so we have a fraud engine of ourselves designed by us. So there are some configurations that you have to do. And then we also have integrated with a third party, which is provided by CyberSource.
[00:46:32] CyberSource has a fraud risk engine called as decision manager. Their APIs also, we have integrated. Now those APIs are again, so when the merchant has to set up the rules, they will have to set up the rules on the CyberSource dashboard or on just phase risk engine fraud, risk engine dashboard.
[00:46:47] So it's a rule setup that they'll have to do. Okay, if I'm seeing from this particular IP for this many particular times and the transaction gets failed by the, or is rejected by the bank, maybe we'll not have to attempt and there will be a cool off period. Also for certain time, we'll not have to attempt a transaction, maybe some error codes as you want to go deeper into the risk engine, the fraud and risk engine that we already have, not the ones that we are revamping.
[00:47:12] When it comes to FRM, there are two parts, right? One is orchestrator orchestration around the FRM as well where we integrate with the multiple external provider. Merchant will procure the MID from them and then configure the rules at their end and we orchestrate it, second part is where we do our own.
[00:47:34] Set of rule based or rule based risk management. So that currently for the internal one ones, we only have the static rules supported where you can say that say only ex part is allowed to be transacted by by a customer three times a day. Something like that. Some static rules only.
[00:47:58] We support as of now rules around blacklisting, whitelisting where you say this card blacklist this card for this merchant, or say blacklist. There's been, or let's say greater than amount, greater than so and for a merchant blacklist. All these static rules currently we support in our own FRM, but the dynamic rules based on, the rules attached to the card where tradition is coming from the global system that is currently we don't have in-house, but we have a support of third party providers whom we integrate and merchant can u utilize that service in our transaction flow as a part of risk evaluation.
[00:48:40] Also, we have two flow where. Say, let's say merchant initiates the transaction with us and merchant configures saying that before we go to the underlying provider, check the risk score with this risk provider. And if risk score falls below points of threshold, then you fail the transaction without going to the payment aggregator or payment service provider.
[00:49:01] That kind of parallel parallel sequential rule check. We call it a sequential rule check where we. Synchronously, we check the risk code and then proceed with the provider. Second flow, there is one more flow we have where risk evaluation happens in parallel, and transaction also happens in parallel.
[00:49:20] Then at the end of the transaction, we gives the visibility to our end merchant where we say, this is the status of a transaction and this is the status of the risk evaluation we did. Now, merchant takes a call, whatever they want to do, they either fulfill the order. Or they refund it based on the risk configuration they have at their end.
[00:49:39] So we had earlier given this third party risk engine to one of the merchant airline merchant, and what they were saying is that we want to do a risk check, but we do not want to fail the transaction because of a risk check failure. So what you do is you do a risk check. Give me the response of the risk check, make the payment transaction.
[00:49:56] Also, if the payment transaction is successful, they have a team at their end who are gonna look at the payment success and the risk check results. The results of the risk check and would accordingly deal with it whether they want to cancel those flight, refund, those transactions, all of that that is what is the parallel stuff.
[00:50:12] And there is a sequential where merchant would say that, okay, I want to do a risk check first. If there is check failed. I do not want to initiate the transaction even at all so that there is less effort at the customer support team and all of that, right? There is no, no one required the merchant side to actually analyze the, what is the res result of the risk engine, what is the result of payment.
[00:50:30] Payment should not be attempted, even if the risks check fails. So it's a merchant specific stuff. Merchants generally opt for whether they want to go for sequential or parallel, but we have built off both the flows sequential as well as parallels. I, but we do not have too many merchants right now using a lot of risk India.
[00:50:47] But I think with more of international merchants coming in, I think the risk engine would be an area where we'll have to work more and then build a lot of other rules. Sure. I think rag. Rag and then wants to take it up, right? Sure. He was joined. Okay. He was here. I guess he just write up.
[00:51:03] Sure. Any other questions for me? What? A little bit on the card and open wall. Yeah. Yeah. Take it up. I might have to go for another call, but I Please start. I think Rag is also not guys for as an orchestrator, we also have, card void service where on behalf of merchant, we store the card at RN based on the consent given by the end user.
[00:51:29] So card is stored and repeat transactions are done without the, without entering the card details. You just give the CVV and then you can do the transaction. So it's a tokenization kind of service where we store the card against it open. And with the token merchant can do a repeat transaction on the card.
[00:51:47] Now when it comes to card wallet there is a construct of tokenization where tokenized card wallet is actually provided by the network. In India right now, no one is authorized to store the card. On this hour. So the raw card details should only be stored with the network or issuer.
[00:52:07] So in that case, we use network as a world provider and network provides us the token. We store the token using which we can do repeat transaction. So this, these two services are available with us where Juspay is a token requester, which means Juspay can onboard the merchants. And facilitate the store, that transaction for them.
[00:52:30] For every network we have support for Visa, MasterCard, eex in India, Rupe diners, all these cards are supported at R Union Pay. I'm not sure we have to confirm. I think it is not available right now. So Union Bay as a cardboard is something we will have to add. But apart from that, let's say if, some country doesn't have any such enforcement of storing card at network or issue only, or it's is they allow the card to be stored on the merchant server as well. So we have our own card wallet as well where we store the raw card detail in our card wallet, and we provide the token for a repeat transaction code that is something also, which is available on our platform.

