Overview - 

Creating 10x People: Problems, Platforms, and Principles,

The provided text, "Creating 10x People: Problems, Platforms, and Principles," outlines a framework for fostering individuals who demonstrate exceptional creativity and understanding. The author suggests cultivating an environment that increases the likelihood of significant breakthroughs, focusing on large problems, innovative platforms, and foundational principles for personal improvement. A key aspect of this development involves a four-pronged approach to becoming an "inventor," emphasizing hands-on learning, developing an understanding of existing and new theories, comprehending the "shape of domain" by adapting skills to solve real-world problems, and drawing inspiration from the "shape of nature" for broader insights. This multi-faceted perspective is presented as a method for creating mental models that enhance an individual's outlook and capabilities.



Transcript 

How do we create these 10x people who are 10x deep in their understanding and you know 10x creative? Everybody aspires in fact to do great work right and that that's uh that's all I'm talking about. It is always uh a lot of times step by step but now and then some leaps happen a lot of times not in our control u so but how do we create an environment where we can increase the chance of leaps happening as a collective right um so this uh problems platforms and people. So this is one of the frameworks that uh we uh we follow and we bring in you know large problems. Uh I can talk about some of the platforms we have done and we have a lot of principles on u you know how as people we can improve right um and that that a lot of times comes from our own self-awareness. I' I've seen whatever has worked for me I will share some examples of that. Uh I tell our people uh if we have to you know be like an inventor maybe these four things could matter. So one is hands-on hands-on learning. Uh we ask almost everybody in Jasper to be hands-on. Even managers have to be hands-on. Um it could be coding, it could be you doing design, it could be uh even having a sense of you know how uh physical things work. Uh like for example is this cup designed well? And if I have a good sense of everything things around me, everything around me and uh I have a good sense of uh the UX of that right I could be good at the digital UX also. So people who have a good grounding in being hands-on uh is one of the one of the four things that could be uh you know making you really good at uh good at seeing possibilities, good at seeing good at being um you know master your skill and be an expert or a master in your craft, right? Uh but a lot of times hands-on is not enough. We might be doing some uh deep hands-on work but might we might miss the big picture. Uh so there are few ways of getting that big picture. One of them is uh we call it the shape of theory. So you can learn existing theories and you can create your own theories. Even what I'm saying is like a theory. The fourpoint uh method for being like an inventor, being hands on then uh also abstract out and uh create your own theories or principles mental models it's also called or you identify good theories that you can relate to and you can incorporate in your work um example let's say how steam engine was created thermodynamics all these theories were created by uh like scientists looking at you know how steam works in a normal day-to-day occurrence Right? Uh so how day-to-day understanding of you being one with reality you also abstract that into theories. Right? That is also very important. Um sometimes even theory doesn't help. Uh there is the third thing which sometimes uh gives us clarity and constraint. We call it the shape of domain. Uh what is shape of domain? Domain is uh typically people call it business logic etc. What is business? Uh I look at business as sharing. What is sharing? Sharing is understanding of what others want. Uh you have certain skills but if you can adapt your skills to uh solve problems that world needs, others need. Uh having that skill to see what others want, having that empathy, having that understanding, uh that is what we call as shape of domain. Uh a lot of product design and uh user experience uh uh improvement or even taking technology decisions uh come from this understanding. How much do we need to fix things? How much do we need to you know make something customizable? Uh comes from an understanding of uh how the world works. What what do we envision as people right now need what people need 5 years down the line uh 10 years down the line etc. Right? Uh so that is the shape of domain. The fourth is the most broader thing. We call it the shape of nature. Uh that's again like the above three but it is more broader. Um you can learn from how a bird is flying. uh how you can experience light to uh how maybe water is flowing etc. I I keep it open-ended. Uh so when you when you are when all these first three are not helping you hands-on theory domain sometimes nature gives you inspiration and gives you insight. Um that that has also been a great inspiration for me. Um in fact even people talk about AI all these alignment it is really about you know what is already in nature. How does these new techn technologies align and harmonize uh with the existing way nature works, right? So that needs a deep understanding of how nature works. Science is all about that. And there is also an art a lot of art in nature. Um so this is this is for example one one way we create mental models. These four uh ways of thinking to develop perspective.

