Maximize value creation

The provided text defines commerce as the creation of value from consumed resources, emphasizing that the output (Y) should always exceed the input (X). It explains that a healthy economic system facilitates this creation by efficiently allocating resources, acknowledging that the future source of value creation is often unpredictable. Therefore, resources must be broadly distributed to empower individuals and their descendants to innovate. The author highlights the role of efficient digital marketplaces and financial systems, such as digital payment systems and credit, in optimizing this resource allocation. The text concludes by noting the significant impact of scalable digital payment systems, referencing the author's involvement in a system handling over 150 million daily transactions.




Transcript 

So one um interesting thing when you ask what is payments is what is even commerce uh what is money etc right? See in in general the world or the universe is moving towards organizing things organizing putting things together and creating things right nature itself does it and through human this thing which happens through humans is what we call as trade and business etc like you people come together and different people have different skills and they can create different products and parts and you're always exchanging uh these components and building something more from it, right? Or you are consuming but the end should be more creation. So if at any point we consume X, we have to create Y which is more than X. Um that is a right value creating economic system. So it is not not about just uh you know value uh resources moving between people and we just paying money, right? So this whole resource allocation problem, which resource has to go to whom so that short-term, medium-term, long-term, this value can be created out of the blue. We call it value from nothing. You consume X and you create Y which is really big. Uh just to give an analogy, a lot of times art has great analogies about it. Let's say you have a small music instrument, but you created music that uh goes viral and uh you know hundreds of millions of people listen to it. Uh how much value did you create compared to how much did you consume right so world is full of these kind of big creators who are consuming less and creating more. Um so ideally business has to allocate resources such that it goes to the right places and it enhances creation. Now now you you might question like okay if you only have to to enhance creation. Uh a few people only have to get money. No, not like that. If you really really look at long long term, you never know where the value is going to get created. Right? So that's that's how resource has to be well distributed and everybody has to have resources to create value now in the medium term in the future or maybe there somebody might be getting resources their children might create value right. So it's very indirect when we make this whole value flow system happen in a more and more efficient way. through digital marketplaces uh through efficient financial systems. Payments is one of them. Credit is another uh the right resource allocation happens and right what is the right formula for resource allocation? There is no clear formula. Uh that is what the market decides right. So but it is good to have a very efficient market. So and this will happen at scale right it has uh it's already happening at scale. Not everything is digital but when it uh gets more and more digital, it gets more and more efficient. So digital payment systems play a big role in that. We we have been uh you know part of the UPI journey from the start and uh we did did a bunch of you know core components there and from a scale perspective we do more than 150 million transactions every day. So we build very large scale system distributed system

