

Principles of Exponential Technology and Design

 The below  provided text outlines four principles for navigating the modern technological landscape, focusing on exponential growth and human-centered design. The first principle emphasizes maximizing value creation by achieving more with fewer resources. This leads to the second principle, which centers on enabling individuals to become innovators and achieve significant advancements. The third principle encourages courageous actions and taking calculated leaps to de-risk ambitious endeavors. Finally, the fourth and most detailed principle asserts the critical role of software and design in harmonizing with exponential technological advancements, particularly through miniaturization and the emergence of AI, by prioritizing aesthetic depth and natural integration.





Transcript 

We are talking about our fourth principle. Uh which is about how important and exponentially big technology and design are. Uh before that we will quickly brief on our first three principles. The first principle is about uh maximizing value creation and doing more with less. Uh which all of us agree we all of us want to create value right? Uh the second principle is doing that by enabling people. We should enable ourselves and we should enable people also. Um in fact uh we wanted to run just pay like a education company. We want people to do 10x work and be like inventors. So that is our second principle. The third principle uh to maximize value creation and enable people we have to take courageous moves. We have to take courageous moves. Our people have to take courageous moves. And to take such moves we need to do 10x jumps right. Right? We should not be afraid of doing the right things and we have to derisk that is we have to create cushion and jump. So that is how we take big leaps without risk right lot of lot of times we have taken leaps outside it will look like risk but for us it will look very normal. So that is our third principle. So the fourth is what we are going to get into detail now. So we have to do the first three things in software and design. time because these are the two places where currently in the world there's a big shift which is happening big shift in terms of exponential growth in technology um I don't need to talk much about this right now because you can see everybody in the world talking about it like 5 years ago when we used to talk about this as a principle we talk about why technology is really big because miniaturization is going to is the dominant force uh so basically an analogy which I'm repeating maybe uh a single glass of water has more number of atoms than number of glasses needed to fill all the oceans put together so there is so much material out there in a small wafer of silicon and by arranging that into right machinery right forms right patterns beautiful patterns you can truly create marvelous um functional and aesthetic things that uh will happen around us, right? We want to create around us. So this large force of miniaturaturization is what is driving technology and this is not going to stop anytime soon and Mo's law is something that all of you know uh it's coming from this uh and Mo's law has manifested right now in AI which is a lot about parallel computing what you would have heard about as GPUs which is like thousands of processors packaged in a wafer And it is able to do so much computation that that computation is now leveraged to almost get to humanlike intelligence and people are talking about uh it can surpass the typical intelligence. So now talking about design technology versus design right I think design or aesthetic is the counter to this exponential force. So what makes us human is the true depth of aesthetic. Uh And aesthetic is not only about what just looks good. Aesthetic is about which architecture would work, which uh direction uh in a strategy would look right. And um in my experience this aesthetic sense is something which is unexplainable and uh it is I don't think it is about data science. This sense of what is right. We we talked about what is right also in our uh you know second and third princip simple because we take courageous moves in the right direction. This right itself is a kind of aesthetic because my understanding of this is um it's beyond logic because logic is aesthetic. It's beyond logic right the one in you which could understand aesthetic is the one which is finding logic aesthetic. It's the one which is finding um something like okay oh data is proving it yes makes sense. That sense of make sense also happens in many other places uh typical functional areas. So extending ourselves to exercise our aesthetic or develop our aesthetic sense to take the right calls in in product design in right strategy, right architecture is going to make us more and more human and that is how we are going to harmonize with the exponential growth of technology. To put it more practical, I would say everybody should learn product design. design thinking etc which uh a lot of people talk about right in the uh in the creation circles and in the uh startup circles more than just uh you know design thinking having a process uh of you know empathize with the customer and brainstorm etc. I think doing product design is much deeper than that uh who would have thought about that WhatsApp would work who would have thought about Twitter will work these are simple ideas but somehow it happen happened that uh it worked as it is working at this scale and somebody's able to come up with that right which is not straightforward. So the depth of expression in design is also unexplainable. Um so that is that is what our fourth principle is talking about. Um so there is this huge acceleration in uh technology which is happening. Um and AI is uh an outcome of that and much more is going to happen. Uh the counter to that is uh depth in design and aesthetic. Uh so maybe one idea about design is what is natural. Uh we find what we call as nature which is a lot about biology as natural. Uh I also think uh when technology is exponentially growing, it has to harmonize with nature. It has to harmonize with biology. It has to give its true respect to biology. Um in fact humans have to do it and humans plus machines which are going to argument more and more uh also have to respect biology and we have to build things which are natural. So the depth of aesthetic and natural also are almost the same or the same I feel. Cool. So that that is our fourth principle. Uh

