Overview

Unified Principles and Innovative Branching

 The provided text explores two fundamental principles for innovation: unification and branching. Unification involves seeking out the core, foundational elements or "first principles" that simplify complex systems, much like scientific equations explain vast phenomena. Conversely, branching advocates for breaking away from established patterns and embracing a playful, contrarian mindset to discover new solutions that may eventually lead to unexpected unifications. The author suggests that true innovation often arises from the interplay and harmony between these seemingly opposite approaches, acknowledging that a "branch"—an unconventional idea—can ultimately reveal a new fundamental principle, even when the initial intention was to unify. This dynamic balance, a kind of "right chaos," is presented as an art form essential for groundbreaking, scalable innovation.




Transcript 


So the fifth principle is maybe easy. It is about uh finding the true nature of things or the depth, the foundation, first principles, fundamentals, abstracting out, going deep into something, simplifying something. Uh which we are uh always doing and we everybody talks about it, we also talk about it, right? Uh we want to take it to the level where how science is done uh how science creates small equations to represent some very big phenomen Um like that our domain uh payments domain and fintech domain will also have deep patterns and uh that those patterns will simplify the whole ecosystem. U such patterns were identified in UPI that is why it is simple um and it has scaled. So these first principles uh deep building blocks which are simple which which fits to the whole diverse needs uh simple building blocks but caters to diverse needs. uh so such are uh the patterns that we have to find and uh these unification will be the platform on top of which diversity will be built just like how biology DNA RNA all these building blocks are there and so many animals are formed cell is a great building block uh great unifier people say it's a such a uh innovative simple actually not simple it is a complex building blocks building block also uh on top of it so many things built right? Such are the right building blocks that we have to find out looking for fundamentals. Talking about our uh sixth principle, sixth principle is about having an opposite mindset to that that is uh we looking for something common across everything is the fifth principle. Here we are looking at branching not unification branching. Uh so a lot of times we are stuck with some old pattern which could have been a fundamental maybe years ago or centuries ago. And uh that could be a rigid order that is not helping in innovation right now and we have to break it. U and the breaking doesn't need to be always a you fight and break it. It could be a play off the standard track and you could be playful doing something. Uh and this is how art is made. Art always questions the status quo and there is a lot of art in science also which questions the status quo. Right? And people uh who go and experiment. Uh sometimes there is a nature of playfulness in us in in that and it also combines greatly with the unification tendency. The tendency to find something big and unified which could be an answer for a lot of problems. Uh it might be something small which happened in a playful event. Uh so that also doesn't mean if you keep playing around uh right things will happen. Uh a lot of times my own uh experience has been I would be really trying hard for the the fourth trying to unify and I will not be able to and I will then jump into that that is I will trying to unify with first principles that is in the principle five and I will not be able to do it. I will get frustrated and I will end up having to play I will end up having to you know do something something uh not straightforward in as an adjacent possible which could be an idea which end up ends up solving for and it could be a branch. Uh in my experience what happens is uh I will try to go after unification try to find some first principles uh and I will fail I will get frustrated and I will end up having to play around and do something else and uh that ends up uh finding some new branch which turns out to be first principle. So it is not always like when we want to unify only unifi unification happens. We really work hard towards unification but we take a branch and that turns out to be the idea which actually unifies. So there it's kind of like a uh opposites but you have to do both. It's like a paradox or it's a harmony between these two which are needed. Uh so you can also see uh the fifth principle as you are going for order and the sixth principle as you are opening up chaos. You're opening up the chaos and the right chaos and nobody likes chaos, right? You doing some random things uh is not uh something that uh we can say no everybody do some random stuff it won't uh converge right so it so that is not the approach sometimes in a light-hearted way trying things out uh still with the right mindset while trying to do the right thing if you are just trying hard hard hard it might not work and it might happen at a moment that you did something different and it could be the right thing right and it could be the unification so that and uh uh why why this is important is a lot of people don't try this. They don't get into six. They uh maybe are thinking like they will not find any solution by doing different things. Because it's also true that doing just different things doesn't solve things. Um but without doing some kind of innovative jump which is maybe contrarian which nobody has done before uh even the unification doesn't happen. So You can see that in Jasper we keep talking about first principles unification but actually we have done a lot of uh non-standard things let's say using functional programming and fully using it's not standard right and that has created a lot of unification thought in our teams and deep learning deep learning of uh deep principles and systems etc but that happened through a branch so we uh are the largest payments SDK company in the world in terms of distribution and uh nobody else has been focused on creating something like a micro app which could sit inside another app just for payments and building a framework which is like react native for that and that is a branch compared to the typical way payment companies are run and uh that turned out to be a great scalable u you know first principles uh approach right um which which has uh helped unify a lot of uh diverse experiences and payments into one single product and by by doing this branch only we had this ability to get into a place where a new unification is possible. Um so right now we are hugely focused on open-source for payments and fintech that is also contrarian strategy in this domain. Uh and we are really after unifying all the payment systems around the world building the Linux for payments And uh you can see that this is not a standard thing. We are looking for uh unification and first principles but we are branching as a strategy right. Uh so the seventh principle is nothing but when to do unification when to do branching and there I say there is no rule. It is uh it is like what we talked about in the fourth principle in design. It is like a aesthetic. It is like the broader aesthetic. Uh uh which collectively we will be able to see that as the right thing. Um so yeah for the greater good we say that so yeah that that that is where it is not straightforward uh especially the design side and the uh branching side because a lot of times it could look like contrarian and not everybody will be able to agree with it but uh we look forward to having enough unified team who will be together be able to see the same thing. and branch together because we need that kind of a uh large enough team to keep it going when we branch because otherwise it will die when we just branch it will be very young and it has to be incubated right all innovative ideas have to be incubated. Uh so yeah so the way to do zero to one innovation which is first principles and scalable needs that kind of innovative uh approaches and contrarian branches and uh to harmonize these two is what seven is talking about. And it is a it's an art in itself.

